Spec HTTP client errors (#711)
getsentry/develop: src/docs/sdk/features.mdx

- span status must match HTTP response status code ([see Span status to HTTP status code mapping](/sdk/event-payloads/span/))
- when network error occurs, span status must be set to `internal_error`

### HTTP Client Errors

The SDK automatically captures HTTP Client errors and sends them to [sentry.io](https://sentry.io).

The HTTP Client integration should have 3 configuration options:

> - `captureFailedRequests` defaults to `false` due to PII reasons.
>   - The SDK will only capture HTTP Client errors if it is enabled.

Reviewer: `l`: Having a list with only one item kinda looks weird. I think we could just merge them into one bullet point. This applies to all items in this list.
```suggestion
- `captureFailedRequests` defaults to `false` due to PII reasons. The SDK will only capture HTTP Client errors if it is enabled.
```

Author: Since this is `l` and it's the develop docs and not user-facing docs, I'd keep it as it is.

> - `failedRequestStatusCodes` defaults to `500 - 599`, this configuration option accepts a `List` of `HttpStatusCodeRange` which is a range of HTTP status code -> `min` to `max` or a single `status_code`.

Reviewer: `m`: A range can also be from 501 to 501. It would simplify the `HttpStatusCodeRange` class. Also noted that here https://github.com/getsentry/sentry-java/pull/2287/files#r998089883.
```suggestion
- `failedRequestStatusCodes` defaults to `500 - 599`, this configuration option accepts a `List` of `HttpStatusCodeRange` which is a range of HTTP status codes from `min` to `max`.
```

Author: I disagree, just more boilerplate/confusing for the user, let's wait for the opinion of others.

  - The SDK will only capture HTTP Client errors if the HTTP Request URL is a match for any of the `failedRequestsTargets`.

The HTTP Client integration should capture error events with the following properties:

The Request interface, see the <Link to="/sdk/event-payloads/request/">Spec</Link> for details.

The Response context (Not yet under the Spec):

```json
{
  "contexts": {
    "response": {
      "type": "response",
      "cookies": "PHPSESSID=298zf09hf012fh2; csrftoken=u32t4o3tb3gg43; _gat=1;",
      "headers": {
        "content-type": "text/html"
        /// ...
      },
      "status_code": 500,
      "body_size": 1000, // in bytes
    }
  }
}
```

The Exception Interface, see the <Link to="/sdk/event-payloads/exception/">Spec</Link> for details.

If the HTTP Client integration does not throw an exception for unsuccessful requests, you can create a synthetic exception following this Spec:

- Set the <Link to="/sdk/event-payloads/exception/#exception-mechanism">Exception Mechanism</Link> with a proper `type` such as `SentryOkHttpInterceptor`.

> - Set the <Link to="/sdk/event-payloads/stacktrace/">Stack Trace Interface</Link> with `snapshot=true`.
>   - The Exception message can be `Event was captured because the request status code was $code`.

Reviewer: `l`: Again only one list item looks a bit weird. I would also change the `can` to a `should`
```suggestion
- Set the <Link to="/sdk/event-payloads/stacktrace/">Stack Trace Interface</Link> with `snapshot=true`. The Exception message should be `Event was captured because the request status code was $code`.
```

>   - The Exception message can be `Event was captured because the request status code was $code`.

Reviewer: `h`: I'm not convinced by the exception message. I think we should instead go for a short title, like `HTTP Client Error with status code: $code`

Author: Yeah, I agree, it's better, will change it, thanks.

- span status must match HTTP response status code ([see Span status to HTTP status code mapping](/sdk/event-payloads/span/))
- when network error occurs, span status must be set to `internal_error`

> ### HTTP Client errors

Reviewer: `l`: Capital letters for titles.
```suggestion
### HTTP Client Errors
```

HTTP Client errors are automatically captured and sent to `https://sentry.io`.

> The HTTP Client integration should have 3 configuration options:

Reviewer: `m`: I think it would be great if the description for each of the options below would not only point out the default values but also their functionality.

> The HTTP Client integration should have 3 configuration options:

Reviewer: `m`: On Cocoa, we don't expose integration options. We use the global SentryOptions for everything. Is this a typical pattern more SDKs use? If yes, we should also add it to Cocoa then. If not, I think we should change to option names, so they reflect they relate to the HTTP client error integration.

Author: The difference is that Cocoa that thru Swizzling so no need of adding interceptors manually, here it is needed so it makes more sense to be per integration.
I can have an HTTP Client that captures events and the other one don't because I don't want to, a global config in the SentryOptions would not allow me to do that.

Reviewer: We will use swizzling, so most likely, we will add this to the global options. But I think the names should also be fine on the global options. They are kind of clear. We only need proper code docs.

* `captureFailedRequests` defaults to `false` due to PII reasons.

> * `failedRequestStatusCode` defaults to `500` to `599`, this configuration option accepts a `List` of `HttpStatusCodeRange` which is a range of HTTP status code -> `min` to `max` or a single `status_code`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `failedRequestStatusCodes` defaults to `500` to `599`, this configuration option accepts a `List` of `HttpStatusCodeRange` which is a range of HTTP status code -> `min` to `max` or a single `status_code`.
```
Should this be code"s" since it's a list of ranges?

> * `failedRequestStatusCodes` defaults to `500` to `599`, this configuration option accepts a `List` of `HttpStatusCodeRange` which is a range of HTTP status code -> `min` to `max` or a single `status_code`.

Author: I added as an option, so if the language allows, its a good idea.

* `failedRequestsTargets` defaults to `.*`, this configuration option accepts a `List` of `String` that may be Regular expressions as well, similar to <Link to="/sdk/performance/#tracepropagationtargets">tracePropagationTargets</Link>.

> Then the HTTP Client Integration should not capture the error:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then the HTTP Client integration should not capture the error:
```
to align with the sentence above

> Then the HTTP Client integration should not capture the error:

Reviewer: `l`: I would replace this everywhere.
```suggestion
Then the HTTP client integration should not capture the error:
```

Author: Other places use `Client` as uppercase and have been reviewed by the docs team, so I will keep it as it is.

> Then the HTTP Client integration should not capture the error:

Reviewer: `m`: Formulating this when the integration should capture an error would avoid double negative statements below and improve the readability.

> * SDKs won't capture error events if `captureFailedRequests` is disabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* If `captureFailedRequests` is disabled.
```
Since we say above "the Http Client integration should not capture the error" already, we probably don't need to add this part in the beginning

> * If the HTTP Request url isn't a match for any of the `failedRequestsTargets`.

Reviewer: `l`: Typos
```suggestion
* If the HTTP request URL isn't a match for any of the `failedRequestTargets`.
```

* If the HTTP Response status code isn't within the defined ranges in `failedRequestStatusCodes`.

> The HTTP Client integration should capture error events with the following properties:

Reviewer: `m`: What is the title and content of the error event? Is it the exception itself?

Author: That depends on the original or synthetic exception/stack trace, I will add a note about the title I've used.

Reviewer: I don't see the note, or am I missing something?

Author: Its there, https://develop-git-chore-http-client-errors.sentry.dev/sdk/features/#http-client-errors
As a subitem of the stack trace interface, the title example.

> The SDKs should capture error events with the following properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The HTTP Client integration should capture error events with the following properties:
```

> The Request interface, See the <Link to="/sdk/event-payloads/request/">Spec</Link> for details.

Reviewer: `l`: I think there is no reason to use capitals for these. The same applies to the next couple of lines.
```suggestion
The request interface, see the <Link to="/sdk/event-payloads/request/">spec</Link> for details.
```

Author: Changing `See` to `see`, but will keep `Request`, docs team always keep them as Uppercase.

> The Response context (Not yet under the Spec):

Author: Linking to the Spec when Relay is done, See [RFC](https://github.com/getsentry/rfcs/blob/main/text/0022-response-context.md).

Reviewer 3: I believe the response content would also be something nice to have.

Author: This is the response content.
If you mean the request, it's linked in the original spec (line above), where there is the JSON content, I don't want to duplicate content, one more thing to maintain and to keep up to date.
This JSON example is going to be removed once this comment https://github.com/getsentry/develop/pull/711/files#r994681788 is addressed but it's not dependent on me.

```json
{
  "contexts": {
    "response": {
      "type": "response",
      "cookies": "PHPSESSID=298zf09hf012fh2; csrftoken=u32t4o3tb3gg43; _gat=1;",

>       "headers": {

Reviewer 3: Cookies are also in the headers, should we duplicate this information?

Author: This protocol already exists, send headers as it is, and cookies also in the specific field.

        "content-type": "text/html"
        /// ...
      },
      "status_code": 500,
      "body_size": 1000, // in bytes
    }
  }
}
```

The Exception Interface, See the <Link to="/sdk/event-payloads/exception/">Spec</Link> for details.

If the HTTP Client integration does not throw an error for unsuccessful requests, you can create a synthetic exception following this Spec:

* Set the <Link to="/sdk/event-payloads/exception/#exception-mechanism">Exception Mechanism</Link> with a proper `type` such as `SentryOkHttpInterceptor`.

> * Set the <Link to="/sdk/event-payloads/stacktrace/">Stack Trace Interface</Link> with `snapshot=true`.

Reviewer: I don't really understand this. Why should the integration throw errors?

> When capturing error events, pass the original `Request` and `Response` objects from the HTTP Client as `hints`, so the users may filter out events with the full context.

Reviewer: `l`: I would mention `beforeSend`. What SDKs not having hints? Is it fine to not do this?
```suggestion
When capturing error events, pass the original `Request` and `Response` objects from the HTTP Client as `hints`, so the users may filter out events in `beforeSend` with the full context.
```

Reviewer: I still would mention `beforeSend`.

> Those events can be searchable and alertable with the `http.url` and `http.status_code` properties, learn more about it in the [Searchable Properties](https://docs.sentry.io/product/sentry-basics/search/searchable-properties/) docs.

Reviewer: `m`: Which events are those events?
